
1.  Log into one of the workstations in rooms BA 2220 
(plus others, to be announced as renovations progress).
To have permissions to run the virtual machine, you have to
log in at the graphical console; a remote login (ssh or the
like) isn't good enough.


2.  Open a terminal window and give the command

        cvm csc369

If this is the first time you've used the VM, there may be a few 
seconds of delay and a message about formatting your personal VM 
disk. You do not need to press anything, even if you potentially
see a message prompting you to do so.


3.  A new window will pop up showing the VM console.  It will
print various bootstrapping messages, may spend a few seconds
showing a blank white or blank screen, and may change its size
a few times; all this is normal as the OS boots within
the virtual machine.  
When it's ready to use, the screen will print an OS version and 
display a "login:" prompt.


4.  At this point, you should be able to log in at the console 
using the following credentials:
username: student
password: kernel369

In the home folder, please notice that there is a script called
"SetupKeys.sh" - it is important that you run this each time you
start the VM, otherwise you might find the default key bindings 
quite difficult to use. Running this script will ask you for the
password above, since it needs sudo rights. 

To transfer files or ssh from or to the VM, you can do the following:
- from the host where the VM is running, you can ssh into the VM as 
follows:
    ssh -p 8022 student@localhost
- from the VM, you can ssh to your CDF account (or scp files back and 
forth), as follows:
    ssh youruser@cdf.toronto.edu
    scp local_file_to_transfer youruser@cdf.toronto.edu:path_to_transfer_files_to
    scp youruser@cdf.toronto.edu:path_to_transfer_files_from local_destination


IMPORTANT:
Since you operate at the kernel level, each time your test your code
there is a chance you will crash the kernel. In most cases, simply 
rebooting the VM will be sufficient, but there is no guarantee that 
your code will not get lost or left in an old state. Please make sure
to backup your code periodically when you work on the assignment.

 
5.  Other things you should know:

-- When you log off the CDF workstation, any running virtual
machine will be killed automatically.  This is an abrupt kill,
like pulling out the power plug on a real system.  It is better
to shut the VM down cleanly instead, by logging in, running
        sudo poweroff
and waiting for the VM-console window to disappear.

-- If you use the VM console window, your keyboard and mouse may
get stuck in there.  To unstick them, press your keyboard's left-
hand CTRL and ALT keys at the same time.

-- There is one copy of the VM associated with your CDF account.
You'll get the same one, with the same virtual disk, no matter which
workstation you log into.

-- Don't run the VM more than once at the same time; if you do,
you'll likely end up with a scrambled, corrupt virtual disk.
There is some simple protection to try to keep you from doing
this by accident but it doesn't yet detect if you do it on two
different workstations.  So don't!

-- If the VM's file system gets hopelessly screwed up (maybe
because of a system crash), as a last resort you can start
over from scratch by running

        cvm -DESTROY csc369

Doing this will throw away, forever and with no backup, anything
that has changed in your copy of the VM since the beginning.
You probably don't want to do this, but here it is if you need it.

